0export - create self-installing bundles for distribution on CD, etc

Copyright Thomas Leonard, 2008


INTRODUCTION

Zero Install is a decentralised installation system. Meta-data about each
package is published in a "feed" file.

Normally, a program is run by passing its name (a URI) to the 0launch
command. This downloads the appropriate feeds, choose a set of
implementations (a version of the program, along with any libraries it
needs) and downloads them too. For details, see:

  http://0install.net

However, it is sometimes useful to bundle a program and its libraries
together on a CD (for example) so that it can be used on machines without a
network connection, or where the network is very slow. It is also useful for
archival purposes, in case the original web-sites supplying required
libraries become unavailable.

0export takes the URI of a program and creates a "setup.sh" file; a
self-extracting archive containing everything needed to run the program.
This file can be executed on a machine without a network connection to
install or run the program.

Unlike the bundles created by the related zero2bundle program, programs
installed using setup.sh are added to the Zero Install cache and are
therefore still shared between users, and will get updates over the web
where possible.


INSTRUCTIONS

Create a short-cut to 0export:

  $ 0alias 0export http://0install.net/2008/interfaces/0export.xml

To create an installer for Edit:

  $ 0export setup-edit.sh http://rox.sourceforge.net/2005/interfaces/Edit

To test the installer:

  $ sh setup-edit.sh

The setup-edit.sh file can be written to CD, archived, etc.


FORMAT

The bulk of the setup.sh file is an archive containing:

- All feeds needed to run the program.
- All GPGs keys signing the feeds.
- All selected implementations (versions).
- A copy of Zero Install, in case the target system doesn't have it.
- An installation script.

To make the archive self-extracting, a short shell script is prepended to
the archive which unpacks it to a temporary directory and then runs the
installer.


CONDITIONS

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307  USA


BUG REPORTS

Please report any bugs to the mailing list:

	http://0install.net/support.html
